what are the hacks that you've learned
like through our relationship that help
you get out of the corner or you've seen
help me get out of the corner when we're
in our fights so if I get triggered by
something in a
conversation and I don't move the
trigger often what we do is
compartmentalize and then we're speaking
from the trigger and then our our bodies
tense up to hold on to the thing that
the hit that happened in our body and I
I personally will um try to compensate
through saying something
or acting like it didn't happen or
didn't affect me when it really did and
my tone gets different and then I'm
digging in and then I'm like subtly kind
of saying like [__] you no it's totally
okay and [__] you no I'm fine I'm not
angry about anything but [__] you and
I'm saying it not with those words but
like no yeah I don't want to do that no
okay now that's all
you and I'm not owning that I'm really
upset you're laughing cuz you recognize
it I've been there once or
twice um because the hit has is in my
body and hasn't gotten to move it hasn't
gotten to finish sequencing so it's it's
it's it's as if you got hit by something
and it's kind of simmering and like you
got hit by a hot potato and it's still
burning your skin whereas if I take the
hit and let it fully
sequence I get to discharge it I get to
release it I get to not take it out on
any anybody and then I think what
technically happens is that emotional
part of the brain calms down the
reactive part of the brain Palm calms
down and my like executive functioning
part of the brain can come back on and
can actually be curious and have a
conversation and I can come back to
compassion
curiosity and come out of my corner and
actually kind of Wonder like oh that was
crazy for me what was that like for you
or what were actually trying to say when
I got triggered I can I can the reactive
part of myself isn't there anymore I've
moved I I consider it like a charge or a
hit and I've moved the charge and in
doing so re-calibrated my whole system
so I can think clearly yeah so tell me a
good story about that
um I don't have a story with you I have
a story with kids I remember Esme we
were cooking and she threw something at
me but I wasn't I didn't know coming so
it hit me in the face and I got really
triggered and I got really angry and I
knew it was an accident logically but I
was like I had heat in my body and I was
like hold on one second I just have to
do a little dance
and I'm I am confident that sounded more
fun than it actually
sounded like [__] [__]
that hurt I try I would try not to curse
in front of kids but I was like ah I was
like oh that really hurt and I could
come back and say okay let's try that
again like that really hurt I know you
didn't mean to hurt me let's make eye
contact before we throw things to each
other in the kitchen yeah so I could I
could not respond from anger yeah okay
how did you learn it how did you learn
this trick how did I learn that
trick my very first introduction de to
hand inhand parenting and I remember
Patty with saying you can go tell your
kids in advance if I get triggered this
is what I'm going to do I'm going to go
into the room and I'm going to press on
the wall I don't remember exactly how
she said it but I remember saying it to
Esme like oh if I ever get angry it's
nothing to do with you it's my job and
this is how I'm going to take care of it
I'm going to go into our bedroom and I'm
going to press on this wall and you
might hear me make funny sounds
like and press on the wall and I
remember doing that one or two or three
times and like just I I
parenting got a lot easier after that
yeah before that I found myself losing
my temper getting having like a short
fuse with the kids or with just I think
we just had Esme at that moment like
having a shorter fuse being kind of like
snippy mama and when I learned that hack
that I could go and move anger then it
was like I'd actually do that once and
I'd be settled for a week like
untriggered unfazed like things could
get thrown at me and I'd be like okay
that didn't work let's try a do
over and had did you learn to translate
that to a husband it was harder to
figure out that emotional dance with
you I think I actually remember one of
the first times I really learned it we
were in a car fighting about something
on the east coast up in the
mountains no it was before that but we
were in a
car and we were fighting about something
and you said something hot you're like
and I
went and and I just got angry back and
it was at you but it wasn't really at
you and you were just like yeah cool and
I was like oh okay I felt like you could
hold it you didn't take it personally
and I got to just move it as opposed to
sit on it and hold it which is what I
did traditionally
beforehand and then it was like oh I
just
could I could be untriggered I could
think clearly and I could have
compassion for me and for you and be
like H what are we doing here what's
this really about yeah and how has life
been like moving like now that like in
our relationship you take the emotions
you're feeling you move them without
taking them out on
anybody what like how do you see the
relationship having changed I'd say
fights are much shorter they're not
really even fights because it's like
trigger what did you just say oh okay I
thought you said something else that's
so funny yeah uh yeah no I don't want I
don't want to go see a movie or like
it's just a a nonevent what would have
been an event that then I layered and
piled on more crap onto and went on
could have gone on for an hour two hours
maybe not the night sometimes though
like more like occasionally like
residual overnight is now like a non
it's not a total non-event like there's
still something but it moves quickly
yeah how about resentment no my
experience is that if I'm sitting on
especially a charge like anger that then
it's not moving the charge that leads to
the resentment and kind of like
complaining and if I move the the charge
I don't even want to call it anger as
much as like a charge or a trigger or a
hit um and express it it doesn't even
have to be to you I can express it on my
own then like it's like I've moved it
resentment isn't even a
I'm trying to search it's not it's not
even because the the when the charge
moves there's there's there's no need
for resentment usually because there's
another hack that comes in which is then
I speak my truth
uncharged the thing that I remember
about like when I first started moving
emotions to like so I wasn't triggered
by you at you I was triggered by you I
would move the emotion but then I could
come back was that when I first started
moving the emotions I actually started
feeling it more and more I remember like
oh I'm like [__] should I be doing this
because it started to like amplify a
little bit like I like I was a little
quicker to anger at the beginning the
imia thing is I would get angry out of
the room and come back and be like there
but then I just noticed like oh I was a
little quicker to anger
generally and I got scared about that
for a while and I realized oh I just had
like a [__] ton of backlog of anger that
needed to
move and that if I was moving the anger
without believing the
story it definitely moved like smoother
whereas if I like got angry in such a
way that I tracked like I kept on
thinking the story was true then I
actually hadn't moved the anger all the
way so part of it was learning to move
the anger all the way so that I actually
had real peace on the other side a real
Epiphany on the other side and then part
of it was just getting a backlog of
anger out of the system because for me
it was anger that was the piece you know
still is like I'm still prone to anger
quicker than any of the other emotions
and then I also remember like at the
beginning that when you were leaving to
go into the other room you weren't like
you weren't clear about what you were
doing or that was open and I'd be like
God feel like so abandoned like I was
going to like [__] die or something
like that and that was like really hard
for me like wait you're leaving the room
what's going on like you're abandoning
me like we're supposed to fight this out
and figure it out and that was something
then it was really helpful when we
learned those tricks of like here's the
like I'm going to be gone for five
minutes this is what I'm doing I'm going
to come back like openhearted leaving
instead of closed- hearted leaving that
was really
useful and not letting the leaving be
part of the anger right yeah and not
letting the leaving that's a great way
yeah yeah that's a great way to put it
not letting the leaving be part of the
anger like a big moment for me that was
really interesting in our fights and
just like the anger cuz we learned this
like as the kids
were young and I remember that time when
I was like making
pancakes and same thing like Esme didn't
throw something at me but like the girls
would always like fight do something
like right when the pancakes were
burning and the bacon was going and the
grease was splattering and the alarm was
going off and they'd be like they at the
time I didn't quite know but they're
just feeling my attenion and mimicking
it you know and and and I
went and as me just looked at me she's
like that was some good anger dad and I
remember that and I was like oh this is
like there's a whole another level of
there's a whole another level here of
this which
is if I'm not getting angry at you anger
isn't something that's scary it isn't
something that's bad it's like that the
emotions are considered bad at least in
part because of what people do with them
people think something's bad often not
because it is like it's a neutral thing
like money but it's bad because they've
had a bad experience with it and I
realized emotions are like were the same
way in my life all the emotions that I
thought were bad were actually just
people had just Ed them as a tool to
manipulate me or to try to control me
and that the emotions themselves weren't
bad so that was a big realization the
other piece that was interesting for me
was at the beginning when we first like
discharged
emotions it was mostly
anger but there's been times now where
it's like in the middle of the fight the
thing that needs to be felt is the grief
and we can do that usually not in the
other room like with each other but I I
think it's it was interesting anger was
the first that we leared because we
wanted to stop hurting each other but
then we started seeing how the fights
themselves were these ways to like feel
things we had push down and then we
could feel them and be with each other
and I think it's just important to
realize that the it's not just anger
that is the emotions that sometimes get
released in a fight and that allow us to
heal i' would say the progression
actually was in the beginning go move
anger in another room while leaking it
ever so slightly on the way
out and then learning to clean it up and
say hold on I have some anger to move
I'll be back in 3 minutes going to the
other room and moving it so so that it
wasn't leaking out and then eventually
there came a time when I can remember
being like hold on do you have a minute
of space for me just to yell you'd be
like yeah I go and we could do it with
each other in the room and sometimes
there would be leaking over on each
other and eventually again even there
would learn how to do it really cleanly
so there was a whole progression with
anger and then came room for the grief
and the fear and other things to yeah to
move and sometimes in the
like starting with anger hold on I'm
just so frustrated do you have a minute
while I move frustration you be like
yeah go for it I'm like then I start
shaking like oh I'm really scared
because I have no idea where we're going
after this yeah so those deeper emotions
could come out
too and the more we did it the easier it
got to hold space for each
other yeah that's for sure
[Music]